Serving apps doc via authenticated endpoint (#7903)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/development/apps/api/setup.md

* Works regardless of where the app is installed (editable install, virtualenv, system site-packages).
* Access is protected by Django authentication.

### File Structure

Documentation for an app (e.g., example_app) is expected to be located inside the package:

```no-highlight
example_app/
├── docs/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── assets/
      └── extra.css
      └── nautobot_logo.svg
```

### Build Process using MkDocs

If using MkDocs to compile Markdown documentation to HTML, you should ensure that `mkdocs.yml` defines `site_dir` to be the path `<app_name>/docs` so that the compiled HTML is correctly placed in that directory.

```no-highlight
mkdocs build --no-directory-urls --strict
```

### URL Routing

The `docs_file` URL pattern defined in `nautobot.core.urls` is used for serving documentation files for all installed apps.

`/docs/example-app/` — redirects to `/docs/example-app/index.html`, which serves the `example_app/docs/index.html` file.

`/docs/example-app/assets/extra.css` — serves the requested file directly from `example_app/docs/` and its subdirectories (for example, `example_app/docs/assets/extra.css`).

> Each app’s own `docs/` endpoint (defined in its urls.py) redirects to this shared route using the appropriate `base_ur`l and `path="index.html"` parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each app’s own `docs/` endpoint (defined in its `urls.py`) redirects to this shared route using the appropriate `base_url` and `path="index.html"` parameters.
```

* The app source directory, with the same name as your app.

The app source directory contains all of the actual Python code and other resources used by your app. Its structure is left to the author's discretion, however it is recommended to follow best practices as outlined in the [Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/intro/reusable-apps/). At a minimum, this directory **must** contain an `__init__.py` file containing an instance of Nautobot's `NautobotAppConfig` class.

## Serving Apps Documentation

The documentation for each pip-installed application is served dynamically through Django views and is restricted to authenticated users. This approach ensures that:

* Works regardless of where the app is installed (editable install, virtualenv, system site-packages).
* Access is protected by Django authentication.

### File Structure

Documentation for an app (e.g., example_app) is expected to be located inside the package:

```no-highlight
example_app/
├── docs/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── assets/
      └── extra.css
      └── nautobot_logo.svg
```

> The `docs` directory is the `site_dir` output of MkDocs during the build process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Build Process
> 
> Documentation is built using MkDocs:
> 
> ```no-highlight
> mkdocs build --no-directory-urls --strict
> ```
> 
> `site_dir` in mkdocs.yml should be always inside the app package like `<app_name>/docs` this defined where output of `mkdocs build` is placed.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Build Process using MkDocs

If using MkDocs to compile Markdown documentation to HTML, you should ensure that `mkdocs.yml` defines `site_dir` to be the path `<app_name>/docs` so that the compiled HTML is correctly placed in that directory.

```no-highlight
mkdocs build --no-directory-urls --strict
```
````

### URL Routing

> Two URL patterns are defined for serving documentation:
> 
> ```python
> from django.urls import path
> from nautobot.core.views import AppDocsView
> 
> urlpatterns = [
>     # Apps docs - Serve the main page
>     path("docs/<str:app>/", AppDocsView.as_view(), name="docs_index"),
>     # Apps docs - Serve assets
>     path("docs/<str:app>/<path:path>", AppDocsView.as_view(), name="docs_file"),
> ]
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `docs_index` and `docs_files` URL patterns defined in `nautobot.core.urls` are used for serving the documentation of all apps.
```

> `/docs/example_app/` - serves index.html.
> 
> `/docs/example_app/assets/extra.css` - serves static assets referenced in the HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/docs/example_app/` - serves the `example_app/docs/index.html` file.

`/docs/example_app/assets/extra.css` - serves the requested file from `example_app/docs/` and its subdirectories, for example here `example_app/docs/assets/extra.css`.
```

Both routes go through AppDocsView, which enforces login.

### Redirect for Each App

Each app should define its own top-level `/docs/` URL that redirects to the appropriate app documentation:

```python
app_name = example_app
path(
    "docs/",
    RedirectView.as_view(pattern_name="docs_index"),
    {"app_name": app_name},
    name="docs",
)
```

> This allows users to access `/docs/` without specifying the app name. The redirect points to the docs_index route for the specific app.

Reviewer: The app name would still be included wouldn't it? This just redirects from `/example_app/docs/` to `/docs/example_app/` right?

Author: right, fixed
